---
id: 1610
title: 'Extreme Programming Explained: The five values'
date: '2017-11-25T18:28:57+00:00'
author: Jose
layout: revision
guid: 'http://josecuellar.net/1609-revision-v1/'
permalink: '/?p=1610'
---

XP is about social change. It is about letting go of habits and patterns that were adaptive in the past, but now get in the way of us doing our best work. It is about giving up the defenses that protect us but interfere with our productivity. It may leave us feeling exposed. It is about writing great code that is really good for business. Need both technique and good relationships to be successful. XP is a stye of software development focusing on excellent application of programming techniques, clear communication, and teamwork. - Philosophy of software development based on the values of communication, feedback, simplicity, courage, and respect. - A body of practices proven useful in improving software development. - A set of complementary principles, intellectual techniques for transating the values into practice, useful when there isn´t a practice handy for your particular problem. - A community that shares these values and many of the same practices. - Short development cycles, resulting in early, concrete, and continuining feedback. - Incremental planning approach, which quickly comes up with and overall plan that is expected to evolve through the life of the project. - Ability to flexibly schedule the implementation of functionality, responding to changing business needs. - Automated tsts written by programmers , customers, and testers to monitor the progress of development, to allow the system to evove, and to catch defects early. XP embraces five values to guide developent: communication, simplicity, feedback, courage, and respect. Communication What matters most in team software development is communication. Communication is important for creating a sense of team and effective cooperation. Simplicity To make a system simple enough to gracefully solve only today´s problem is hard work. What is the simplest thing that could possibly work? Eliminate complexity waste. Achieving simplicity gives you that much less to communicate about. Feedback Change is inevitable, but change creates the need for feedback. XP teams strive to generate as much feedback as they can handle as quickly as posiblle. They try to shorten the feedback cycle to minutes or ours instead of weeks or months. Courage Courage is effective action in the face of fear. Sometimes courage manifests as a bias to action. Sometimes courage manifests as patience. The courage to speak truths, pleasant or unpleasant, fosters communication and trust. The courage to discard failing solutions and seek new ones encourages simplilcity. Respect For software development to simultaneusly improve in humanity and productivity thehe contributions of each person on the team need to be respected. I am important and so are you. Communication, simplicity, feedbac, courage, and respect aren´t the only possible values for effective software development. Those are the driving values of XP. Your organization, your team, and you yourself may choose other values. Other important values include safety, security, predictability and quality-of-life. Holding these values as a team would shape your practices in different ways than the XP values do. Values don´t provide concrete advice about what to do in software development. Because of the distance between values and practics, we need a way to bridge the gap beetween them. Principes ar the tool we need.